```
Starting from the very beginning SQLiteStudio
First let me just say that the best resources for SQLiteStudio in my opinion are in the help menu, User Manual & SQLite Documentation.

1 Create a database for your projects:

Database, Add Database, type the name of the database you want to create in the file browser window projects.db and click ok.

That's it! This took me hours of searching to figure out. I can't be the only one.

2 Connect to the new database

In the meantime you need have an idea of what is in the file you want to import in terms of columns and data. If it's not too large, 
you may want to open it in Excel and take a look. This information will be needed to create the right table to import the data into. 
If you get the data from a source like Kaggle you can preview it before downloading so you know the columns and data types. Very helpful!

3 Create a table syntax

CREATE TABLE database_name.table_name( column1 datatype, column2 datatype, column3 datatype, ..... columnN datatype );

Basic data types used in creating tables:

TEXT - text string (ex Name)
CHARACTER - CHAR or VARCHAR (ex Address)
INTEGER - INT number (ex Age)
REAL - numberic data with a decimal point (ex Salary)
DATE
DATETIME
I am simplifying this some so if you want to know what they get stored as go to the SQLite Documentation under Affinity types.

If you are importing multiple tables, you will need a PRIMARY KEY in each table to join the tables. When the key is in the data, 
here's how you assign it:

CREATE TABLE database_name.table_name( 
column1 datatype PRIMARY KEY, 
column2 datatype, 
column3 datatype, 
..... 
columnN datatype );

Or if you want to auto create a PRIMARY KEY:

CREATE TABLE database_name.table_name( 
ID INTEGER PRIMARY KEY AUTOINCREMENT, 
column2 datatype, 
column3 datatype, 
column4 datatype, 
..... 
columnN datatype );

Basic constraint options for columns when creating tables:

UNIQUE - ensures that all values in the column are different.
NOT NULL - ensures that a column cannot have NULL values.
DEFAULT value - when NULL a default value as defined will be populated.
4 Import .csv file - Tools, Import, Table to Import to choose table, continue, browse to find the .csv file, Open, Done.

You are now ready to wrangle your data in SQLiteStudio!

Okay so if you made it this far and kept going, maybe you had an error importing your data...me too, baby steps!

Read the error it will help direct you to what happened. If you are like me, I used a slightly different column name than the exact 
name on the file. Tempermental, clearly not allowed. Whoops

Bonus 5 Here's how to fix that:

ALTER TABLE table_name 
RENAME COLUMN current_name TO new_name;

Keep going, every day you get a little closer to mastering SQL!
```
